We just learned to import our data, and about variable types in R. Now, we'll learn how to specify variable types when reading data. This is called type casting, and it is an important step in taming your data.

Casting column types when you import your data will save you time and pain in the future. It is like the difference between baking in the kitchen on the left versus on the right. 

All wrangling, analyses, and plotting will be easier when you start with a tame data frame. Knowing and setting your column types in your R scripts will help you do that.

We'll use the readr package again, this time adding the col underscore types argument to do the type casting for us.

We have used other arguments for read underscore csv, like skip and na. You can see that the default argument for col underscore types is NULL.

If we leave the default, all column types are guessed from the first 1000 rows. This usually works, but sometimes we know our data better!

Here is the tame version of the bakers data:

- series, age, and number of episodes are numbers
- baker is a character, 
- aired_us is a logical, 
- and last date uk is a date.

Now let's take a look at the raw variable types, before type casting.

Let's take a slice of the first four rows to compare. 

The raw age variable in the bottom slice is a character. Why? Because the word years appears after each number.

How can we cast this variable to a number?

readr has several parsing functions, where the column type you want goes after the underscore. 

Using parse underscore number, we extract the number from a character vector. Let's put this into action using read underscore csv.

Where we used parse number on a vector, we use col number to cast a column in a data frame.

Using the col types argument, we list the columns to cast. The column name goes on the left and the column type goes on the right.

Now our age variable is tame!

But notice that the last underscore date underscore uk variable also needs taming. Let's parse then cast this variable next.

Parsing a date is a little trickier.

Dates have a day, month, and year. But there could be dashes or slashes instead of spaces, year could be listed first instead of last, and months could be abbreviated or numeric. 

The help documents for this parsing function provide a key for specifying your date format. 

These help documents are shared for the family of readr functions for parsing dates and times.

Following this key, we parse this date from left to right with % lower-case d for day.

% upper-case B for month, which needs to be spelled out.

And finally % upper-case Y for the 4-digit year.

We also have spaces in between each date element, but other separators like dashes and slashes can also be used.

Now that we can parse this date, we can cast the variable to a date.

Notice that the column type is date, and all the values in the column are re-formatted as Year-Month-Day with integers.

For every column type, there is a `parse_*()` function and a `col_*()` function. If you want to change any column type, you can practice using the `parse()` function with a character vector.

In this video, we used parse number and parse date, but there is a way to parse any variable type using this workflow.

Now let's get to work casting some column types!
