When working with data, some variables may be discrete, which means that you have either a numeric or character variable where the range of possible values is fixed and limited. But sometimes those values need to be recoded.

Think of recoding values like a "find-and-replace" for variables in a data frame.

Here is an example from an exercise you did in chapter 1. These are the distinct values of the result variable in the bakeoff data.

What if we wanted to change all values of SB to STAR BAKER? 

This simple change might make it easier for people to work this variable.

To do this, we use the recode function in the dplyr package.

For more complex recoding, there is a dplyr function called case underscore when, which we'll cover in the last chapter of this course.

The usage for recode lists dot-x and dot-dot-dot. The dot-dot-dot is called an ellipsis, and it is important to know in R. Generally it means that the function is designed to take any number of named or unnamed arguments.

Finally, we have two named arguments with defaults set to NULL: dot-default and dot-missing.

The first argument, dot-x, is the vector we're modifying. 

The ellipsis stands for the replacements. The argument names, the left hand side of each pair, are the current values to be replaced. 

The argument values, the right hand side of each pair, are the new replacement values. Let's see this in action.

This is some data about our ten youngest bakers on the show. The data frame is called young_bakers.

Let's recode the student variable, which is numeric- it looks like zeroes mean "not a student" and ones and twos indicate types of students.

Recode is best used inside a mutate. This means that you can save the recoded variable as a new variable, or you can recode and replace an existing variable.

Here we made a new variable called stu underscore label.

The first argument to recode is the existing variable to recode.

Next come to replacement pairs. On the left is the old value to be replaced. I put the zero here in backticks because it is a number. On the right is the replacement value, which is the string "other".

This is the equivalent of find-and-replace: find the value on the left, and replace it with the value on the right.

We also used the dot default argument, and set it to the string "student". This means that any value that is not 0 will be recoded as student.

We could also have replaced any existing values with NA. Just as you learned how to replace some values with NA at import using read underscore csv, you can also replace values with NA using recode.

Here we recode zeroes as NA. But because our replacement values are characters, we have to use NA underscore character underscore. Here again, values that are not zero are recoded as "student."

We can replace as many values as we want by listing them, with each replacement pair separated by commas. The old value is always on the left, and the new value is always on the right.

If you only want to convert specific values to NA, but leave all other values as is, you can use the na underscore if function instead. You use it inside a mutate just like recode. 

The first argument is the variable to modify, and the second is the current value to replace with NA. 

Here the only change we made is to replace all zeroes with NA.

Now let's try some examples.
