Now that we know what tidy data is, let's learn about how to get our data from untidy to tidy.

-------

One of the most important functions for tidying data in the `tidyr` package is called gather.

-------

The gather function collapses multiple columns into two columns. Using gather is sometimes referred to as reshaping your data from wide to long, because it often reduces the number of columns and increases the number of rows.

-------

The arguments we need are data, key, value, and we see those ellipses again.

-------

A key and a value are required, and we'll come back to these. The ellipses is where we name the columns to gather using bare variable names, but we can also use our `dplyr::select()` helpers. We'll use the colon operator to select a range of consecutive columns.

-------

Using the juniors data, the key and value arguments highlighted in green are our two NEW variable names: "spice" and "correct." The two new columns you want are the key and value columns. Since these two variables need to be created, their names go in quotes. The key column will contain the original column names. The value column will contain the original cells. Finally, we select the columns to gather, highlighted in blue. You can use the colon operator to select a range of existing, consecutive variables to gather by name.

-------

To gather what you have into what you want, start with the data frame, which goes before the pipe operator. Next declare the key and value columns- argument names go on the left and the argument values go in quotes on the right. So, spice and correct are the columns we want. The columns we have to gather go last. Since they already exist in the data, these column names don't need to be in quotes. Let's break down the key column.

-------

Key is the new variable that will hold the column of our original column names. Think of turning a key in a lock- the columns names from your original data are turned from a single row into a single column. The values in this column are repeated as needed. Here, cinnamon underscore 1 gets repeated four times.

-------

We also have four observations of the cardamom smell test. These get stacked in the spice column too.

-------

And same for nutmeg.

-------

Value is the new variable that will hold all of the original cells in a single column. The first column selected to gather goes to the top of the stack, so we start with cinnamon underscore one.

-------

We gather three columns total, so cardamom underscore two gets stacked next in the same column.

-------

And same with nutmeg underscore three.

-------

One trick is to start with key equals key and value equals value. The worst thing that can happen is that you end up with poorly named columns! In other words, columns where you can't remember what the cells contain, or column names that are so generic that you can't remember them...But sometimes you need to see how the columns look after gathering to be able to name them. Once your code for gathering works, you can always change the key and value column names to be meaningful.

-------

Now let's get busy gathering.
