Earlier we saw how to use dplyr to recode values for individual variables. However, we need a different function for more complex recoding. This is where dplyr's case underscore when function shines! 

Case underscore when allows you to vectorise multiple if and else if statements. 

Why does this mean and why would you need it?

-------

We'll use case underscore when to group bakers into generations based on their birth year, using the generation definitions from the Pew Research Center.

-------

Think of case underscore when as a sequence of if-then pairs. 

The if part is on the left hand side. This side must be a logical, so it must be phrased in a way that the answer is only TRUE or FALSE. 

If true, then the value on the right is used as the replacement value.

At the end, there is an implicit ELSE. The default value for any ELSE is NA.

Let's see how this works in practice.

-------

We're going to use our bakers data again.

-------

Within a mutate, we could use a simple if else to create a new variable called gen, which is "millenial" if a baker was born between 1981 and 1996. Here all other birth years are coded as "not millenial".

Between is a dplyr short cut for testing if a value falls within a given range. The boundaries are always inclusive.

-------

For multiple "if else" pairs, case underscore when becomes quite handy. 

Now we can string together multiple if then sequences, separated by commas. 

The left hand side defines the condition, like birth year between 1965 and 1980. A tilde separates the left from the right hand side. On the right is the new value, like gen underscore x.

As you read from left to right, think "if this, then that." If a baker's birth year is between the first range, then they are generation x; if in the second range, they are a millenial.

Notice that all other birth years are NA. Let's add more pairs.

-------

Each if then sequence is evaluated in order from top to bottom.

Let's walk through this code.

We code each generation based on birth year ranges for millenial, generation x, boomers, and the silent generation.

On the last line, TRUE is a catch-all for cases not meeting any of the earlier conditions. This ends up being all bakers whose birth year was after 1996. We code these as "generation z". 

All the right hand side values need to be of the same type. Here, we have created a character variable with 5 possible values.

-------

Here is our final case underscore when code broken down. On the left of the tilde think "if TRUE". On the right think "then replace with" Then go down the list.

-------

When TRUE is on the left of the last line, think "ELSE". Then the value on the right is the replacement.

-------

Now that we have made this new categorical variable, let's explore it using the full bakers data, with 95 bakers across the first 8 series of the show.

-------

Let's say we want to know the amount of bakers in each generation. Then we can use dplyr's count verb to do this. Adding a mutate after count, we can also calculate the proportion of bakers in each generation. 40 out of 95 bakers have been from Generation X, while only 1 has been from the silent generation.

-------

We can plot these counts as well using ggplot2 with geom underscore bar. Generation X has clearly led the way with the most bakers in the first 8 series.

-------

Now let's try some examples.
