This is our final instructional video for this course. You've learned a lot about how to work with data in R, and in this last video, I'll introduce you to tools for working with strings. But first, let's review some tools we have already covered for string wrangling.

-------

One function we learned was from the tidyr package, called separate. This function is for splitting one column into two or more columns. 

In this data from series 5, separate can help us wrangle the second column named about. It has both the bakers' ages and their occupations.

-------

Using separate, we can make two new columns. 

The first argument to the separate function is the name of the column we wish to separate, which is about. Next, we set the into argument, naming our two new columns in quotes with the combine function. Finally, we specify the separator in quotes using the sep argument. We use a comma and a space as the place to split the single column into two.

But we are still not done yet! We can also transform the age column into a numeric column using the readr package.

-------

Using parse number within a mutate, we can extract out the bakers ages and drop the word years from all rows. Now we have a numeric age variable.

But, we can do even more with strings using a new package from the tidyverse.

-------

The `stringr` package makes it easier to work with strings in R. 

To transform variables that are character strings within a dataframe, you'll typically want to use stringr functions within a mutate.

Let's go over some basic functions.

-------

One of the quickest things to do with strings is to change the case a string's content. Here, we can convert the baker names to upper case and the showstopper bakes to lower case using their respective functions.

-------

All functions in this package start with S-T-R underscore, which I'll pronounce as string.

To detect the presence or absence of a specific string pattern like "pie", we use str detect. This function always returns a logical, so it will either be TRUE or FALSE. 

This code uses string detect within a mutate to create this new logical variable named pie.

We can see that Luis' showstopper bake, called four fruity seasons tower, is the only one that didn't contain the word "pie."

-------

Instead of only detecting a specific string pattern like "pie", we can also detect it and replace it with something else. Think of it like find and replace for strings.

Using the function string replace, we can replace all instances of "pie" with "tart" instead. Now Norman's pieful tower becomes a tartful tower.

-------

We could also remove a string all together instead of replacing it. Using the string remove function, we look for all occurrences of "pie" in the showstopper column and remove them. 

Notice that only Martha's creation, the three little pigs pie, now has quotes around it. This is because when we removed pie, there was trailing whitespace at the end of that string. We can remove that using another function called string trim.

-------

This function trims whitespace at the beginning or end of a string.

-------

Now it's your turn.
